# Description
 Automata is a very interesting topic. It is a very efficient mechanism for implementing dynamic effects in fragment shader. It's so cool that the game of life glider can keep moving with the help of automata. So I chose smoothlife as the topic of my assignment. In smoothlife. In smoothlife, not only to achieve the smooth movement but also implement the glider that can move in arbitrary directions.  I read this [paper](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1111.1567.pdf) and implement such a glider. I found that glider after an encounter with other gliders will split out new gliders launched in different directions. This scene is very much like a cell dividing. So I color-modulated them to make the whole scene look like cellular activity under a microscope. The scene may seem a little monotonous, but our colorful world is made up of these little cells. Then I added mouse interaction. Holding down the left mouse button and dragging the mouse will create new cells on the canvas, and the whole scene will become colorful. After clicking the clearScreen button on the GUI that will clear up the canvas, player can also draw the entire scene from scratch. The idea I want to convey is that: when you look at these cells alone, it seems so insignificant, but there are literally countless cells that make up this colorful world. The moment the player clicks the mouse to interact with them, they can experience their colorful and lovely.  
 **website URL** https://aceyan.github.io/kai-cs-imgd-420x/Assignment%204%20-%20Simulation%20programming/main.html
**video URL** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LGt540ja7_Q&feature=youtu.be
 
# feedbacks
I received some feedbacks from john:
1. The program is a good simulation of what cells look like under a microscope.
2. The second scene has too many colors and changes too fast. If Watching for a long time makes people feel dizzy.
3. The mouse interaction is cool. The idea of drawing the world from scratch is super cool!
4. The scene(automata) is very sensitive to parameters, manual adjustment of parameters can sometimes get unexpected amazing effects or can go into the dead end. Therefore, it is recommended to provide templates for some parameters to show different automata effects.
I was very happy about having John's praise. From his feedback, I successfully conveyed my design concept. And my program does a good job of simulating how cells divide under a microscope. But I didn't expect the second scene which is colorful to make people dizzy. I'll try to adjust the frequency of color change to make it look more friendly. I quite agree with what John said about automata's sensitivity to parameters. It's a good idea to preset some parameter templates.

# Process
I read through the article. Since I have learned Conway's game of life before, I have gained an understanding of the principle and implementation of automata, so I can generally understand the principle of smoothlife when I read the article. However, I encountered a problem when I started to try to implement it. The integral formula of m and n really scare me for the first time. So I started looking for other materials. This [page](https://github.com/duckythescientist/SmoothLife) and this [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iyTIXRhjXII) briefly describes the whole process. What I learn from them is, in fact, in smoothlife, the rule of neighbors in game of life are changed to a continuous circular area (we can see the area of integration is a circle). M can be calculated by adding the values of the neighbors in the inner circle and then dividing by the area of the inner circle. And n can be calculated by adding up the values of the neighbors in the outer ring then dividing by the area of the outer ring. I also faced a problem with solving for neighbor's values. In the paper, it only describes how to figure the neighbor's value in the inner circle. After drawing a sketch map, I finally understand the process of interpolation and figure out a correct way to calculate the value of neighbors in the outer ring. Then, I implemented a smooth glider as described in the article. I tried to expose some parameters to the UI for adjustment. I found that different parameters can combine to produce different automata behaviors. But some are unstable and either disappear quickly or take up the whole screen rather than the smooth glider that can move constantly in a stable state.
